---
layout: post
title: My Co-op at RailComm
---

I recently finished working at <a href="http://railcomm.com" target="_blank">RailComm</a>
for 8 months (Jan - Aug 2015). This co-op was extremely fun, rewarding, and I learned so much
about both hardware and software.

<!--more-->

**TL;DR:**

I wrote and tested custom firmware for a new embedded platform that was being developed and deployed. The firmware was custom to the embedded system, and was primarily C++ running on Linux. Other responsibilities included basic circuit analysis and testing, designing and performing tests for various use cases, scripting in Python, and internal application development in C#.

**Want to know a little more?**

My official position while at RailComm was *Embedded Software Engineer* and I was on the embedded team.
RailComm makes automation systems and solutions for train yards, which is a highly specific area of work.
When I first arrived I knew little to nothing about the rail industry. I quickly learned more about the field
such as the major companies involved down to the specific terms needed to understand the work.

Some of the first projects that were assigned to me involved the Linux shell and Python. I was
generally familiar with Linux before I started this co-op, and after working with it for 8 months I feel
much more proficient. One of the large python scripts I wrote involved setting up a
file-system integrated with source control. As I became more familiar with the company, I started
working on more firmware projects in C++. I was familiar with the concept of object oriented programming
from a class that I took in C++, however these projects strengthened my understanding of this and now I
understand the concepts.

I was also assigned some projects in C#. This was fun because it was new to me. I had never seen C#
before and I picked it up very quickly. One of the projects that I was assigned was to create a service
that combined and manipulated cases from the internal bug tracking software, and merged it in
<a href="https://trello.com" target="_blank">Trello</a>. This project was very fun because I was able
to use my own creative freedom in how it was implemented.

For most, if not all, of the projects I worked on, my supervisor gave me feedback and I would use that to
improve upon my implementation or ways I was thinking about things. Non-software related tasks included:
Creating and/or performing tests for the hardware or firmware that was being developed, some basic project
planning with multiple departments within the company, and some simple surface-mount soldering.

I not only learned a lot about the work that I was doing, but
I was also able to get more experience in a real working environment which is something that we are not
exposed to when just taking classes. I always felt very confident in my ability to work on a team, and this
reinforced that notion. It was also extremely exiting seeing projects that I worked on being
<a href ="http://railcomm.com/news-events/news/2015-05-06" target ="_blank">sold and shipped</a>
out into the world. This was an experience that I will never forget, and I am excited to continue
my efforts in this field.
